# GuitarFretboardUI
  When playing a song on guitar, many people don’t know the notes on the fretboard. Furthermore, songs are played in a certain key, making it so that only certain notes should be played in a song. Certain scales are played within certain key for practice. Figuring out the specific notes for every single scale in a certain key can be very complex and tedious for a beginner to figure out. Having good rhythm and lead skills are critical for any guitar player, and any aspiring guitar player should be practicing scales regularly. However, not knowing the finger positions for scales often deters guitar players from practicing scales regularly, thus severely hampering their progress. Knowing the notes on the fretboard in specific tunings is important. If a player knows what notes are on a given fret, they know what notes to move to when jamming. However, since the frets are not marked with notes, finding what note is on a given fret is tedious for beginners who do not have the fretboard memorized. Making this even more complicated is the fact that many songs are played in different tunings, such as ½ step flat and Drop-D, requiring the player to relearn the note positions with every different tuning. Often, players must resort to counting up half steps from the open strings to the desired fret just to find out what note they are playing. All these factors play a major factor in slowing the progress of aspiring guitar players.

  I decided to do this project because I personally find a fretboard marked with notes a very helpful resource when playing guitar. I have been using static images now for scales and such, and thought it would be a good idea to make an app that emcompasses everything. However, static images are not always available for certain types of scales, and the quality and usefulness of scales displayed on static images can vary. Furthermore, static images are not flexible and can’t be adjusted to the settings the user desires. Guitar players learning scales need to have a way to display the scale they want to play, in their desired key, and in the tuning they are currently in. My app is essentially flexible dictionary for guitar players who are seeking an easy way to learn scales. By having an app that shows the fretboard notes in a certain key or scale, potentially in different tunings, would help me take my rhythm and lead skills for guitar to the next level. I am coding this product in Java because I have had the most experience in that language. I will be using the JSwing library to create the input display and the fretboard display. Using JSwing will allow me to be able to create aesthetically pleasing displays that will allow the user to have an intuitive GUI and display. Using JSwing would also allow for the product to be flexible to user input change.  
